User Interface Design & Implementation 2020
Lab 1: HTML and CSS
Overview
Required Resources
References
Exercise 0: Build Dog's website from scratch
Exercise 1: Make the page your own
Exercise 2: Style your page using Chrome Inspector (F12) or FireBug
Exercise 3: Add and style a table of courses
Exercise 4: Positioning
Exercise 5: Add a Form
Exercise 6: Codecademy Exercises
Lab 1: HTML and CSS
This lab was held on Thursday, February 4, 2016 at 7:30 P.M. in 32-082.
This is a non-compulsory programming lab to introduce students to webpage building with HTML and CSS.
View the source of this page to see a nicely documented solution to the exercises below.

Last Updated: Sat,08 August,2020,11:20pm

Overview
In this programming lab, you will be completing a series of exercises that will help you structure and style web pages. Here's a picture of what your webpage will look like when you're done.


Required Resources
You will need a a text editor, preferably with syntax highlighting. We recommend using Sublime Text, available on OS X, Windows and Linux.

References
Helpful videos selected by TAs
HTML reference
CSS reference
A condensed CSS primer by 6.831 staff (It is a Google Presentation, and comments are allowed.)
Exercise 0: Build Dog's website from scratch
For this exercise, open up your text editor and follow along with what we do on the projector. Starting from a blank file, we will:
Use basic HTML tags to define the overall structure of a web page.
Add some text content to the web page.
Add an image to the web page.
Separate the web page into sections and give each section a heading.
Apply some basic style to the sections using CSS rules.
Featured videos:    Introduction to styling with CSS
Exercise 1: Make the page your own
Modify the page's content to make it your own website.
Replace the name in the page's title with your own.
Replace the interests listed with your own.
Replace the picture of Dog with a picture of yourself.
Exercise 2: Style your page using Chrome Inspector (F12) or FireBug
Use the Chrome Inspector or Firebug to inspect your elements and play with CSS rules. Here is a good reference on CSS selectors.

Change heading fonts to Georgia and color them maroon.
Make links colored differently when you hover and have visited them.
Featured videos:    Adding Style Rules Using Google Chrome Developer Tools
Exercise 3: Add and style a table of courses
Modify the page to include a table of courses you are taking and have taken. Here are some examples of simple tables. Your table should have:

three columns: course number, course title, and semester taken
two vertical sections, with headers for courses taken 'For Credit' and as 'Listener'
alternating row background colors, so it's easy to read
green colored text if the class is currently being taken
Featured videos:    HTML Website Tables & Layouts Tutorial

It should look something like this:


Exercise 4: Positioning
Use Inspector/Firebug to try different layouts using the CSS position directive. Move your picture, interests and course info around. Here's a reference on CSS positioning. Put your picture on the right and the rest of your info on the left.

Featured videos:
CSS Absolute and Relative Positioning Tutorial
Making Divs Side by Side using CSS
It should look something like this:

Exercise 5: Add a Form
Add a form which visitors of your website can use to submit information about their pet. Here's a reference on forms.

Add textboxes for the pet's name, gender and phylum.
Add a Submit button.
Featured videos:    How to create forms in HTML5

Exercise 6: Codecademy Exercises
Do the projects on the Codecademy website.
GDC Chintapalli Visakhapatnam District
